KEITH DEVLIN: Introduction to Mathematical Thinking

ASSIGNMENT 1 (for Lecture 1)

1. Find two unambiguous (but natural sounding) sentences equivalent to the sentence The man saw
the woman with a telescope, the first where the man has the telescope, the second where the woman
has the telescope.

A: The man used the telescope to see the woman
   The woman with a telescope was seen by the man

2. For each of the three ambiguous newspaper headlines I stated in the lecture, rewrite it in a way
that avoids the amusing second meaning, while retaining the brevity of a typical headline:
(a) Sisters reunited after ten years in checkout line at Safeway.

A: After ten years away from each other, sisters reunited in checkout line at Safeway

(b) Large hole appears in High Street. City authorities are looking into it.

A: Large hole appears in High Street and City authorities are looking into fix it.

(c) Mayor says bus passengers should be belted.
---- as a brazilian, i dont get it 

3. The following notice was posted on the wall of a hospital emergency room:
		No head injury is too trivial to ignore.
Reformulate to avoid the unintended second reading. (The context for this sentence is so strong
that many people have difficulty seeing there is an alternative meaning.)

A: no head injury should be ignored no matter how trivial it may seem
   There is no trivial head injury. Don't ignore it
   
4. You often see the following notice posted in elevators:
			In case of fire, do not use elevator.
This one always amuses me. Comment on the two meanings and reformulate to avoid the unintended
second reading. (Again, given the context for this notice, the ambiguity is not problematic.)

A: I don't know if I get it, but the wrong meaning is: We are in fire right now, so you can't use
the elevator, and the right meaning, obviously is: do not use the elevator if the building is on fire.

5. Official documents often contain one or more pages that are empty apart from one sentence at the
bottom:
				This page intentionally left blank.
Does the sentence make a true statement? What is the purpose of making such a statement?
What reformulation of the sentence would avoid any logical problems about truth? (Once again,
the context means that in practice everyone understands the intended meaning and there is no
problem. But the formulation of a similar sentence in mathematics at the start of the twentieth
century destroyed one prominent mathematician’s seminal work and led to a major revolution in
an entire branch of mathematics.)

A: Its a contraditional afirmation, the page is not all blank since contains the sentence. 
Maybe... We intentionally writed just it here.

6. Find (and provide citations for) three examples of published sentences whose literal meaning is
(clearly) not what the writer intended. [This is much easier than you might think. Ambiguity is
very common.]

7. Comment on the sentence “The temperature is hot today.” You hear people say things like this
all the time, and everyone understands what is meant. But using language in this sloppy way in
mathematics would be disastrous.

The temperatur is a unit of measurement, the wheater is hot.

8. How would you show that not every number of the form N = (p1 · p2 · p3 · . . . · pn ) + 1 is prime,
where p1 , p2 , p3 , . . . , pn , . . . is the list of all prime numbers?

A: It can be a prime number, but if its not, so he is 

JUST FOR FUN
1. Provide a context and a sentence within that context, where the word and occurs five times in
succession, with no other word between those five occurrences. (You are allowed to use punctuation.)

In a embareced moment: and...and...and..and..

2. Provide a context and a sentence within that context, where the words and, or, and, or, and occur
in that order, with no other word between them. (Again, you can use punctuation.)

 and.
